Policy # 5.58
SOUTHERN UTAH UNIVERSITY Date Approved: 01/13/12
Policies and Procedures Date Amended:
Reviewed w/no Changes:
Office of Responsibility: CIO
Page 1 of 6
SUBJECT: University E-mail Policy
I. PURPOSE
Electronic mail (e-mail) has become an essential service greatly enhancing communication both
within the Southern Utah University community and to external users, including prospective
students, alumni, and the public at large. The purpose of this policy is to describe the appropriate
use of University e-mail accounts, associated responsibilities, and rights of all uses of the
University e-mail system.
II. REFERENCES
A. Emergency Management Plan (EMP)
B. Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA); SUU Policy 11.3
C. Government Records Access and Management Act (GRAMA), Title 63, Ch. 2, Utah
Code Annotated 1953; SUU Policy 5.39
D. SUU Policy 5.51: Information Technology Resources
E. SUU Policy 5.53: University Archives and Records
F. SUU Policy 5.54: Copyright
G. SUU Policy 6.22: Faculty Due Process
H. SUU Policy 8.3.5: Termination of Non-Academic Staff Employees and Disciplinary
Actions
I. SUU Policy 11.2: Student Responsibility and Rights
J. Acknowledgement: University of Utah Electronic Messaging Policy
III. DEFINITIONS
A. Resources: Software, licensing, hardware, network, and staffing for support of the Email
System.
B. User: Any person, including faculty, staff, and students, who accesses and uses the Email
System.
C. The University: Southern Utah University.
D. Chief Information Officer (CIO): The Associate Vice President for Information
Technology.
E. Delegated (Proxy) Access: The ability of a user to grant access to another user in
order to schedule and/or e-mail on their behalf.
Policy # 5.58
SOUTHERN UTAH UNIVERSITY Date Approved: 01/13/12
Policies and Procedures Date Amended:
Reviewed w/no Changes:
Office of Responsibility: CIO
Page 2 of 6
SUBJECT: University E-mail Policy
F. Functional Account: An e-mail account set up to facilitate communication for a
particular University function, e.g., hostmaster@suu.edu, webservices@suu.edu, etc.
G. Realtime Blackhole List (RBL): Lists of IP addresses of known sources of unsolicited
commercial and bulk e-mail (a.k.a. SPAM).
H. SUU E-mail System: Any system providing e-mail services to SUU faculty, staff,
and/or students. This system may be managed and maintained by SUU, or be hosted
by a third party vendor.
I. SUU E-mail Account: An official SUU account on a SUU E-mail System.
IV. APPLICABILITY
This policy applies to all users of the University E-mail System.
V. POLICY
A. Access to E-mail: Email is made available to authorized users as a convenience for
communication.
1. The University provides SUU E-mail Accounts for legitimate university-related
activities to SUU faculty and staff. The IT department has oversight over those
accounts, with the ability to add/remove accounts.
2. The University provides SUU E-mail Accounts on Google Mail (@suumail.net)
to all students desiring such an account. These accounts are hosted by a 3rd party,
and thus are subject to Google’s Terms and Conditions. It is intended that these
accounts are available for as long as Google provides the service.
3. The University provides SUU E-mail Accounts on Google Mail
(@emeriti.suu.edu) to all emeriti faculty/staff desiring such an account.
Arrangements should be made with the IT department as part of the retirement
process. These accounts are hosted by a 3rd party, and thus are subject to
Google’s Terms and Conditions. It is intended that these accounts are available
for as long as Google provides the service.
4. The University provides SUU E-mail Accounts on Google Mail (@bard.org) to
all staff working for the Utah Shakespeare Festival. The Festival’s IT manager
has oversight over those accounts, with the ability to add/remove accounts.
B. Privacy & Security
1. Users shall respect the legitimate expectations of privacy of others.
2. The security and privacy of messages cannot be guaranteed. During the course of
system maintenance on the SUU E-mail System, IT staff may inadvertently view
Policy # 5.58
SOUTHERN UTAH UNIVERSITY Date Approved: 01/13/12
Policies and Procedures Date Amended:
Reviewed w/no Changes:
Office of Responsibility: CIO
Page 3 of 6
SUBJECT: University E-mail Policy
the contents of messages as they are processed through the SUU E-mail System.
However, these staff members are expected to maintain the confidentiality of any
data they encounter. Not doing so may subject IT administrators to disciplinary
action.
3. Users should not consider e-mail to be private or secure. Messages addressed to
nonexistent or incorrect usernames may be delivered to unintended recipients.
4. The security of messages sent outside the E-mail System (via the Internet or
otherwise) cannot be guaranteed. Users agree not to send e-mail containing
information considered to be sensitive.
5. Users are responsible for safeguarding their passwords. Individual passwords
should not be printed or given to others (including family members).
6. A User may grant delegated (proxy) access to another user in the SUU E-mail
System. Requests for delegated (proxy) access must be approved by the User
whose account will be accessed.
7. Users are advised that e-mail messages on the SUU E-mail System constitute
“public records” and/or “student records” and SUU is authorized and may be
obligated to disclose e-mail messages to law enforcement officials or others under
the Government Records Access and Management Act (GRAMA) or the Family
Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) without prior notice.
C. Monitoring
1. The University reserves the right, but not the duty, to monitor any and all aspects
of its SUU E-mail System. Southern Utah University will not monitor e-mail as a
routine matter, but it may do so to the extent permitted by law or as the University
deems necessary for purposes of maintaining the integrity and effective operation
of the e-mail systems. However, there are cases where “responsive monitoring” is
performed whereby the University monitors in response to a particular problem,
complaint, or investigation to a claim or lawsuit. All monitoring will be approved
by the appropriate oversight body.
D. Mass E-mail
1. Public Relations, Human Resources, and the President’s Office may send
messages to the entire faculty, staff, administration, and/or student body.
Additionally, designated members of the Critical Response Task Force may send
mass messages in the case of a campus emergency.
2. IT staff, with authorization from the CIO, may send bulk e-mail as needed to
inform the campus community of computing-related issues.
Policy # 5.58
SOUTHERN UTAH UNIVERSITY Date Approved: 01/13/12
Policies and Procedures Date Amended:
Reviewed w/no Changes:
Office of Responsibility: CIO
Page 4 of 6
SUBJECT: University E-mail Policy
3. Faculty members are permitted to send e-mail messages to groups of students
currently enrolled in a course. E-mail content must be relevant to that course.
4. Deans, Department Chairs, Academic Advisors and their appointed designees are
permitted to send e-mail messages to large groups of students if those students are
currently part of that person’s professional responsibilities and the e-mail content
is relevant to those responsibilities.
5. Alumni Relations may send e-mail messages to current and former SUU students.
6. Enrollment Management may send e-mail messages pertaining to their mission of
recruitment and retention.
7. The Registrar’s Office may send e-mail messages to current students and
graduates as needed to inform them of registration and graduation issues.
8. The Office of the Vice President of Student Services and the Provost’s Office are
permitted to send e-mail messages to groups of students, or the entire student
body as needed.
9. The Faculty Senate Executive Committee may send e-mail messages to groups of
faculty or the entire faculty as needed.
10. The Staff Association Officers may send e-mail messages to groups of staff
members or the entire staff membership as needed.
11. Additional entities may be granted permission to send e-mail messages to
identified constituencies based on the approval from the appropriate
administrative Vice President.
12. Other individuals not listed above, wishing to message all or part of the student
body, faculty, and/or staff, should use the mySUU portal messaging system.
E. Abuses of E-mail
1. The SUU E-mail System shall not be used for any activity that violates the SUU
Information Technology Resources Policy (Policy #5.51).
2. Although modest personal use of the SUU E-mail System is expected and
permitted, its primary purpose is as a means of conducting official University
business. Any use of the SUU E-mail System that interferes with University
activities and/or functions or does not respect the image and reputation of the
University is improper.
3. The following are some specific actions and uses of the SUU E-mail System that
are considered improper. This list is not intended to be all inclusive:
Policy # 5.58
SOUTHERN UTAH UNIVERSITY Date Approved: 01/13/12
Policies and Procedures Date Amended:
Reviewed w/no Changes:
Office of Responsibility: CIO
Page 5 of 6
SUBJECT: University E-mail Policy
i. Concealment or misrepresentation of names or affiliations in e-mail
messages.
ii. Alteration of source or destination address of e-mail.
iii. Use of e-mail for commercial or private business purposes that have not
been approved.
iv. Use of e-mail to harass or threaten individuals, including “cyber stalking.”
v. Contain material which violates pornography laws.
vi. Contain algorithms or software which, if transferred, violate Unites States
export laws.
vii. Contain scripts or code that could cause a security breach or permit use of
resources in opposition to University policy.
4. As described in SUU Policy 5.54, sharing of copyrighted material without
permission may constitute infringement unless permitted by fair use or other
federal laws.
5. SPAM: Sending unwanted e-mail messages to a large population abuses the email
system and results in fewer resources for University purposes. Sending email
messages to more than 10 users, whether as a single message or as a series or
related messages, is expressly prohibited by this policy, except for communication
detailed in section D, Mass E-mail.
F. E-mail System Management
1. No User will be allowed more than one account in the E-mail System.
2. Functional Accounts may help employees better organize and facilitate e-mail
communication for a particular function. Functional accounts also provide the
ability for multiple people to be able to proxy into that single account to help
manage the function, without having to have multiple individuals proxy into each
other’s mailboxes. Functional accounts may be created once the need is
demonstrated.
3. Due to an increased threat landscape on the Internet, certain attachments may be
prevented from entering the SUU E-mail System. The IT department carefully
considers the balance between security and convenience when determining which
file types are blocked by any SUU E-mail System managed and maintained by the
IT department. E-mail services provided by a third party vendor are subject to the
vendor’s restrictions on attachment file types.
Policy # 5.58
SOUTHERN UTAH UNIVERSITY Date Approved: 01/13/12
Policies and Procedures Date Amended:
Reviewed w/no Changes:
Office of Responsibility: CIO
Page 6 of 6
SUBJECT: University E-mail Policy
4. In order to help reduce the amount of spam and malicious e-mail coming into any
SUU E-mail System managed and maintained by the IT department, the IT
department reserves the right to implement prevention strategies that may include,
but are not limited to RBL’s, anti-virus scanners, and spam filters. E-mail
services provided by a third party vendor are subject to the vendor’s efforts in
controlling spam.
G. Student Preferred E-mail Expectations: Students may prefer to use a personal e-mail
account for their communication with the University. This is permitted with the
following understandings:
1. The student is expected to update/confirm their preferred e-mail address at least
once per semester and/or as changes occur.
2. The student is responsible for all communications sent by the University to their
preferred e-mail address, as provided by the student, regardless of whether the
message was received or opened by the student.
H. E-mail Directory: An e-mail directory of University faculty, staff, and students is
available on the SUU web page. Students who prefer that their directory information
be kept private may request such through the Registrar’s Office.
I. E-mail Retention and Disposal
1. All e-mail coming into and sent from any SUU E-mail System managed and
maintained by the IT department is archived and retained for a period of one year.
E-mail older than one year is automatically purged from the archival system.
2. E-mail services provided by a third party vendor are subject to the vendor’s
retention and disposal policies.
VI. SANCTIONS
A. Members of the University community who violate this policy may be subject to
disciplinary action as described in SUU policy 6.22, Faculty Due Process; SUU
Policy 8.3.5, Termination of Non-Academic Staff Employees and Disciplinary
Actions; and/or SUU Policy 11.2 Student Responsibility and Rights.